The basic idea of dnsjnio is to plug in a non-blocking Resolver 
implementation to dnsjava. An asynchronous implementation of 
ExtendedResolver has also been added; this handles querying multiple 
resolvers in accordance with RFC1035 section 4.2.1.


NonBlockingResolver
===================

The org.xbill.DNS.INonblockingResolver extends the dnsjava Resolver 
implementation to define an alternative to the ResolverListener 
callback mechanism (which is still supported but not recommended). 
A ResponseQueue is used to buffer Responses from the I/O thread to the
client. The client can either block on the queue or else poll the queue
for new Responses.

The DnsController controls the java.nio non-blocking I/O package and is
the heart of dnsjnio. It creates a new thread named "DnsSelect" which 
runs in a continuous loop. Each loop, the input queue is checked for 
new tasks. These tasks are then run in the DnsSelect thread and consist 
of calls such as connect(), send() and close(). Once the input queue is
empty the DnsSelect thread makes a blocking call to select(), before 
processing the result. The loop then starts again.

The rest of the dnsjnio code runs in the client thread (unless using the
ResolverListener callback interface which must start a new thread for 
each callback). Connections are handled by instances of 
AbstractTransactionControllers - if communication over a single port is
required then a SinglePortTransactionController is used - otherwise a 
Transaction per query is instantiated by the NonblockingResolver.

A "DnsTimer" thread is also run to handle the timeouts for DNS requests.

ExtendedNonblockingResolver
===========================

The ExtendedNonblockingResolver handles querying multiple resolvers
for the same name. UDP transport is assumed but TCP may also be used.
The first nameserver in the list is queried first - if this query times
out then the next nameserver is tried and so on. Retries will also be
made to the previous nameserver if the retry limit has not been
exceeded. No exponential backoff strategy is implemented, nor is any
attempt made to track behaviour of the nameservers.

Use of the ExtendedNonblockingResolver creates one additional thread.
The "EnbrResolutionThread" handles querying the NonblockingResolvers
and communicates with the client thread by an input queue and an output
queue.